Some of the exercises in this course
use a shared OpenShift cluster,
provided by the
lab infrastructure to
deploy various applications and test them.
So what we need to do is
verify the credentials that
are assigned to our lab
at the lab creation time.
If you look at your lab overview page,
so switch to the lab environment tab
and then scroll down just a little bit.
You'll be able to see a
section called OpenShift
Details. This section
consists of 4 important bits
of information, actually 3.
First of all, the developer user,
which is randomly generated,
developer password,
which is random as well,
and the master API endpoint,
which is not random at all.
It should actually be used as
is displayed in the console.
This is where the OpenShift
cluster can be reached
and of course, where we can talk to it.
The web console application
is also publicly available,
so for those parts of OpenShift
related workflows that you
need to login to the web console
or to test your application
even, you do not have to do it in
the workstation virtual machine.
You can actually use your browsers and
simply open these links in your browser.
Now, what we need to do to complete
this exercise is simply run
a script called lab-configure
in your workstation's terminal window.
It will ask us for a couple
of bits of information,
as we said, the API endpoint,
which most reliably can just simply be
copied from the webpage and
pasted into the terminal.
The username you've been assigned with.
So this randomly generated string,
the password, which prints
out as well, and that's it.
After that, the script proceeds to
checking that the API endpoint is
available and that all the
infrastructure components
are present, correctly configured,
then presents you with a success report.
Now, the file that it generates
is called /usr/local/etc/
ocp4.config, so this one.
And we will be loading this
file regularly before we start
an exercise because what
its contents are, allow us.
They're just simple,
5 variables that we
can use instead of these
randomly generated strings.
And they're much easier to type
and the best thing of all is that
shell tab completion works with
environment variable names.
It doesn't work with these
randomly generated strings.
So what we'll be doing is simply
sourcing this script or this is
an equivalent command at
the beginning of each exercise that
requires OpenShift connectivity.
Now if you have an issue reported at
any step during the verification phase,
it might be due to an
intermittent failures.
So simply rerun the script.
When you run it for the next time,
so when you run it for
the second time or third,
you do not have to retype or provide
these bits of information all over again.
Do verify that there is no typo of course,
but if it's just about repeating
the verification process, you
can simply press Enter and
the same values as you provided
the previous time will be used
for the subsequent attempt.
Once done,
that's all you needed
to do in this exercise.
So join us in the next chapter
where we're going to talk
about implementing microservices
with Quarkus. See you there.